cbs-agent/instructions/meta/cbs-context.md, before:

---
description: CBS Context Template - Include CBS rules, methodology and standards
globs:
alwaysApply: false
version: 1.0
encoding: UTF-8
---

# CBS Context Template

## CBS Core Principles

**Cell Body System (CBS)** follows modular biological principles:

- **🚌 Bus-Only Communication**: Cells MUST ONLY communicate through the bus - never direct cell-to-cell calls
- **📝 Spec-First**: Every cell has `ai/spec.md` defining its interface and behavior before implementation
- **🧩 Modular Design**: Cells can be large and contain internal components, but must be modular, reusable, and expandable
- **🏷️ Typed Contracts**: All messages use typed envelopes with `cbs.<service>.<verb>` subjects
- **🧪 Test-Driven**: Unit tests for logic, integration tests for bus handling

## CBS Cell Standards

### Required Spec Fields
Every `ai/spec.md` must include:
- `id`, `name`, `version`, `language`, `category`, `purpose`
- Interface: list of `subjects` (subscribe/publish) and envelope type
- Tests: brief checklist of behaviors

### Cell Categories
- **`ui`** - User interface components (Flutter, web)
- **`io`** - Input/output operations (file, network, stdio)  
- **`logic`** - Business logic and data processing
- **`integration`** - External service integrations (APIs, databases)
- **`storage`** - Data persistence and caching

### Directory Structure
```
applications/<app>/cells/<cell>/
  ai/spec.md          # Cell specification
  lib/               # Implementation
  test/              # Tests
  pubspec.yaml       # Dependencies (Dart)

shared_cells/<lang>/ # Reusable cells
  <cell>/
    ai/spec.md
    lib/
    test/
```

### Message Contracts
- **Subject Format**: `cbs.<service>.<verb>` (e.g., `cbs.flow_ui.render`)
- **Schema Versioning**: `service.verb.v1` in envelope metadata  
- **Envelope Structure**: JSON with `schema`, `payload`, `correlation_id`
- **Error Handling**: Publish error envelopes with clear messages

### Quality Standards
- **Logging**: Use platform logging (`log.d/i/w/e` in Flutter; keep logs concise)
- **Testing**: Unit tests for logic; integration tests for bus handling. Avoid cross-cell tests—use bus messages
- **Bus-Only Rule**: Never communicate directly between cells. All inter-cell communication MUST go through the bus
- **Internal Modularity**: Within cells, organize code modularly with clear separation of concerns
- **Reusability**: Design components to be reusable and expandable
- **Documentation**: Keep `spec.md` accurate. Update when behavior changes. Prefer short, precise wording

### Validation & Tools
- **Spec Validation**: `python3 ai/scripts/validate_spec.py` validates specs
- **Cell Mapping**: `python3 ai/scripts/generate_cell_map.py` generates documentation
- **Bus Communication**: Focus validation on ensuring proper bus usage patterns

### Breaking Changes Protocol
When making breaking changes:
1. **Version Bump**: Increment major version (1.0.0 → 2.0.0)
2. **Schema Versioning**: Add version to schemas (`service.verb.v2`)
3. **Migration Plan**: Document how dependent cells adapt
4. **Backward Compatibility**: Consider supporting old subjects temporarily

## CBS Workflows

### Add Feature to Application
1. **Analyze Feature**: Break down into modular cell opportunities
2. **Update Tasks**: Add to `ai/tasks.md`, document in `ai/history.md`
3. **Spec-First**: Update/create `ai/spec.md` files before coding
4. **Update Configuration**: Modify `birthmap.yaml` for dependencies/flows
5. **Implement**: Build modular cells following specs
6. **Validate**: Test bus communication, update cell map

### Create Cell: `create-cell.md`
1. Collect inputs (app, cell_id, language, category, purpose)  
2. Scaffold directories and spec.md
3. Validate spec
4. Update cell map

### Modify Cell: `modify-cell-spec.md`
1. Identify cell path
2. Edit ai/spec.md 
3. Validate changes
4. Update dependencies if interface changed
5. Regenerate cell map
6. Test specification

### Validation Commands
```bash
# Validate single cell
python3 ai/scripts/validate_spec.py applications/<app>/cells/<cell>/ai/spec.md

# Validate all cells
python3 ai/scripts/validate_spec.py

# Update cell map
python3 ai/scripts/generate_cell_map.py
```

## User Rules Integration

From user rules:
- Break code into manageable sized files
- Write concise, optimum code with as few lines as possible
- Don't delete/remove/change logic unless explicitly requested
- Avoid bloated code for rare edge cases
- Use Riverpod for state management
- Use `log.d()`, `log.e()`, `log.i()`, `log.w()` for logging (import from '../utils/logger.dart')
- All UI must fit the theme and be clean, modern with best design practices
- Include documentation on major functions and refactors
- When refactoring, put associated files in a directory
- Always scrutinize: are we doing it the best and simplest way with 100% effectiveness?

Commit message:

refactor: enhance README and remove deprecated command files
- Revise README.md to clarify CBS Agent's iterative development workflow and structure.
- Remove outdated command documentation files related to cell creation, task execution, and product analysis.
- Update command usage examples and standards to reflect current practices and improve usability.

This commit streamlines the documentation and removes obsolete references, enhancing the overall clarity and functionality of the CBS framework.

cbs-agent/instructions/meta/cbs-context.md, after:

---
description: CBS Context Template - Include CBS rules, methodology and standards
globs:
alwaysApply: false
version: 1.0
encoding: UTF-8
---

# CBS Context Template

## CBS Core Principles

**Cell Body System (CBS)** follows modular biological principles:

- **🚌 Bus-Only Communication**: Cells MUST ONLY communicate through the bus - never direct cell-to-cell calls
- **📝 Spec-First**: Every cell has `ai/spec.md` defining its interface and behavior before implementation  
- **🧩 Modular Design**: Cells can be large internally but must be reusable and expandable
- **🏷️ Typed Contracts**: All messages use typed envelopes with `cbs.<service>.<verb>` subjects
- **🧪 Test-Driven**: Unit tests for logic, integration tests for bus handling

*For complete standards, see `cbs-agent/standards/cbs-standards.md`*

## CBS Cell Standards

### Required Spec Fields
Every `ai/spec.md` must include:
- `id`, `name`, `version`, `language`, `category`, `purpose`
- Interface: list of `subjects` (subscribe/publish) and envelope type
- Tests: brief checklist of behaviors

### Cell Categories
- **`ui`** - User interface components (Flutter, web)
- **`io`** - Input/output operations (file, network, stdio)  
- **`logic`** - Business logic and data processing
- **`integration`** - External service integrations (APIs, databases)
- **`storage`** - Data persistence and caching

### Directory Structure
```
applications/<app>/cells/<cell>/
  ai/spec.md          # Cell specification
  lib/               # Implementation
  test/              # Tests
  pubspec.yaml       # Dependencies (Dart)

shared_cells/<lang>/ # Reusable cells
  <cell>/
    ai/spec.md
    lib/
    test/
```

### Message Contracts
- **Subject Format**: `cbs.<service>.<verb>` (e.g., `cbs.flow_ui.render`)
- **Schema Versioning**: `service.verb.v1` in envelope metadata  
- **Envelope Structure**: JSON with `schema`, `payload`, `correlation_id`
- **Error Handling**: Publish error envelopes with clear messages

### Quality Standards
- **Logging**: Use platform logging (`log.d/i/w/e` in Flutter; keep logs concise)
- **Testing**: Unit tests for logic; integration tests for bus handling. Avoid cross-cell tests—use bus messages
- **Bus-Only Rule**: Never communicate directly between cells. All inter-cell communication MUST go through the bus
- **Internal Modularity**: Within cells, organize code modularly with clear separation of concerns
- **Reusability**: Design components to be reusable and expandable
- **Documentation**: Keep `spec.md` accurate. Update when behavior changes. Prefer short, precise wording

### Validation & Tools
- **Spec Validation**: `python3 ai/scripts/validate_spec.py` validates specs
- **Cell Mapping**: `python3 ai/scripts/generate_cell_map.py` generates documentation
- **Bus Communication**: Focus validation on ensuring proper bus usage patterns

### Breaking Changes Protocol
When making breaking changes:
1. **Version Bump**: Increment major version (1.0.0 → 2.0.0)
2. **Schema Versioning**: Add version to schemas (`service.verb.v2`)
3. **Migration Plan**: Document how dependent cells adapt
4. **Backward Compatibility**: Consider supporting old subjects temporarily

## CBS Workflows

### Add Feature to Application
1. **Analyze Feature**: Break down into modular cell opportunities
2. **Update Tasks**: Add to `ai/tasks.md`, document in `ai/history.md`
3. **Spec-First**: Update/create `ai/spec.md` files before coding
4. **Update Configuration**: Modify `birthmap.yaml` for dependencies/flows
5. **Implement**: Build modular cells following specs
6. **Validate**: Test bus communication, update cell map

### Create Cell: `create-cell.md`
1. Collect inputs (app, cell_id, language, category, purpose)  
2. Scaffold directories and spec.md
3. Validate spec
4. Update cell map

### Modify Cell: `modify-cell-spec.md`
1. Identify cell path
2. Edit ai/spec.md 
3. Validate changes
4. Update dependencies if interface changed
5. Regenerate cell map
6. Test specification

### Validation Commands
```bash
# Validate single cell
python3 ai/scripts/validate_spec.py applications/<app>/cells/<cell>/ai/spec.md

# Validate all cells
python3 ai/scripts/validate_spec.py

# Update cell map
python3 ai/scripts/generate_cell_map.py
```

## User Rules Integration

From user rules:
- Break code into manageable sized files
- Write concise, optimum code with as few lines as possible
- Don't delete/remove/change logic unless explicitly requested
- Avoid bloated code for rare edge cases
- Use Riverpod for state management
- Use `log.d()`, `log.e()`, `log.i()`, `log.w()` for logging (import from '../utils/logger.dart')
- All UI must fit the theme and be clean, modern with best design practices
- Include documentation on major functions and refactors
- When refactoring, put associated files in a directory
- Always scrutinize: are we doing it the best and simplest way with 100% effectiveness?
