cbs-agent/standards/cbs-standards.md, before:

# CBS Development Standards

## Core Philosophy: Cell-Based Development

**CELLS MUST ONLY COMMUNICATE THROUGH THE BUS - NEVER DIRECTLY**

### Development Principles
- **Cell-focused**: Always work within the context of specific cells
- **Bus-only communication**: No direct imports or method calls between cells  
- **Contract-first**: Design message contracts before implementation
- **Isolation preservation**: Maintain biological isolation in all changes
- **Modular design**: Cells can be large internally but must be reusable and expandable

## Cell Standards

### Required Spec Fields
- `id`, `name`, `version`, `language`, `category`, `purpose`
- Interface: list of `subjects` (subscribe/publish) and envelope type
- Tests: brief checklist of behaviors

### Cell Categories
- `ui`, `io`, `logic`, `integration`, `storage`

### Directory Structure
```
applications/<app>/cells/<cell>/
  ai/spec.md          # Cell specification
  lib/               # Implementation
  test/              # Tests
  pubspec.yaml       # Dependencies (Dart)
```

### Message Contracts
- Subject format: `cbs.<service>.<verb>` (snake_case)
- Schema versioning: `service.verb.v1` in envelope metadata
- Envelope structure: JSON with `schema`, `payload`, `correlation_id`
- Error handling: Publish error envelopes with clear messages

### Quality Standards
- **Logging**: Use platform logging (`log.d/i/w/e` in Flutter; keep logs concise)
- **Testing**: Unit tests for logic; integration tests for bus handling
- **Bus-only rule**: Never communicate directly between cells
- **Internal modularity**: Within cells, organize code modularly
- **Documentation**: Keep `spec.md` accurate; update when behavior changes

## Code Style

### Rust
- Use `rustfmt` defaults; CI runs `cargo fmt -- --check`
- Lint with `clippy`; fix or allow with rationale
- Prefer explicit types on public APIs; avoid `unwrap`/`expect` in library code
- Use early returns; handle errors with `thiserror` or `anyhow`
- Keep modules small; one responsibility per file

### Dart/Flutter  
- Follow `dart format`; CI runs `flutter analyze` and `flutter test`
- Prefer immutable data, small widgets/functions
- Use explicit types for public APIs; avoid dynamic
- Keep files short; one widget/class per file when feasible
- Document public classes and functions concisely

### Python
- Format with Black (line length 100); lint with Ruff
- Python >= 3.11, prefer type hints on public functions
- Use `pytest` for tests; keep tests close to code
- Avoid complex metaprogramming; choose readability
- Small, focused modules; clear names; early returns

## Development Workflow

### Context Management
```bash
cbs context <app_name>          # Set application context
cbs focus <cell_name>           # Focus on specific cell  
cbs work <app> <cell>           # Start work session
```

### Cell Development
1. **Set Context**: Establish app/cell context before work
2. **Review Spec**: Check `ai/spec.md` for message contracts
3. **Validate Isolation**: Ensure no direct cell dependencies
4. **Implement Changes**: Work within cell boundaries only
5. **Test Isolation**: Validate bus-only communication
6. **Update Contracts**: Modify specs when changing messages

### Validation
```bash
cbs validate                    # Full validation suite
cbs validate --specs           # Specs only
cbs isolation                  # Check cell isolation
```

## Tech Stack

### Core Infrastructure
- **Message Bus**: NATS with JetStream persistence
- **Database**: Supabase PostgreSQL with MCP integration
- **Subject Pattern**: `cbs.{service}.{verb}` with queue groups

### Languages & Runtimes
- **Primary**: Rust 2021 Edition
- **UI**: Dart/Flutter SDK >=3.0.0 <4.0.0
- **Polyglot**: Python >=3.11 (via cells)

### Key Dependencies
#### Rust
- serde/serde_json, async-trait, async-nats, tokio, uuid, thiserror

#### Dart/Flutter
- CBS SDK (custom cell framework), HTTP & WebSocket clients

### Development Tools
- **Formatting**: rustfmt, dart format, Black
- **Linting**: clippy, flutter_lints, Ruff
- **Testing**: Built-in test frameworks + mockito
- **Observability**: log.d/i/w/e with correlation IDs

## Best Practices

### Keep It Simple
- Implement in fewest lines possible
- Avoid over-engineering solutions
- Choose straightforward approaches over clever ones

### Optimize for Readability
- Prioritize code clarity over micro-optimizations
- Write self-documenting code with clear variable names
- Add comments for "why" not "what"

### DRY (Don't Repeat Yourself)
- Extract repeated business logic to private methods
- Extract repeated UI markup to reusable components
- Create utility functions for common operations

### File Structure
- Keep files focused on single responsibility
- Group related functionality together
- Use consistent naming conventions

## Breaking Changes Protocol

When making breaking changes:
1. **Version Bump**: Increment major version (1.0.0 → 2.0.0)
2. **Message Versioning**: Add version to message names (`service.verb.v2`)
3. **Migration Plan**: Document how dependent cells adapt
4. **Backward Compatibility**: Consider supporting old subjects temporarily

Commit message:

refactor: enhance cell structure documentation and update command scripts
- Introduce a hierarchical breakdown for CBS cells in app-breakdown.md, detailing core, feature, and shared domains.
- Update command scripts to support hierarchical cell creation, listing, and migration, improving usability and organization.
- Revise cbs-cell-create script to accept hierarchical paths for cell creation, enhancing clarity in usage examples.
- Update standards documentation to include new guidelines for color opacity and state management practices.

These changes improve the overall structure and usability of the CBS framework, aligning with current development practices and enhancing documentation clarity.

cbs-agent/standards/cbs-standards.md, after:

# CBS Development Standards

## Core Philosophy: Cell-Based Development

**CELLS MUST ONLY COMMUNICATE THROUGH THE BUS - NEVER DIRECTLY**

### Development Principles
- **Cell-focused**: Always work within the context of specific cells
- **Bus-only communication**: No direct imports or method calls between cells  
- **Contract-first**: Design message contracts before implementation
- **Isolation preservation**: Maintain biological isolation in all changes
- **Modular design**: Cells can be large internally but must be reusable and expandable

## Cell Standards

### Required Spec Fields
- `id`, `name`, `version`, `language`, `category`, `purpose`
- Interface: list of `subjects` (subscribe/publish) and envelope type
- Tests: brief checklist of behaviors

### Cell Categories
- `ui`, `io`, `logic`, `integration`, `storage`

### Directory Structure
```
applications/<app>/cells/<cell>/
  ai/spec.md          # Cell specification
  lib/               # Implementation
  test/              # Tests
  pubspec.yaml       # Dependencies (Dart)
```

### Message Contracts
- Subject format: `cbs.<service>.<verb>` (snake_case)
- Schema versioning: `service.verb.v1` in envelope metadata
- Envelope structure: JSON with `schema`, `payload`, `correlation_id`
- Error handling: Publish error envelopes with clear messages

### Quality Standards
- **Logging**: Use platform logging (`log.d/i/w/e` in Flutter; keep logs concise)
- **Testing**: Unit tests for logic; integration tests for bus handling
- **Bus-only rule**: Never communicate directly between cells
- **Internal modularity**: Within cells, organize code modularly
- **Documentation**: Keep `spec.md` accurate; update when behavior changes

## Code Style

### Rust
- Use `rustfmt` defaults; CI runs `cargo fmt -- --check`
- Lint with `clippy`; fix or allow with rationale
- Prefer explicit types on public APIs; avoid `unwrap`/`expect` in library code
- Use early returns; handle errors with `thiserror` or `anyhow`
- Keep modules small; one responsibility per file

### Dart/Flutter  
- Follow `dart format`; CI runs `flutter analyze` and `flutter test`
- Prefer immutable data, small widgets/functions
- Use explicit types for public APIs; avoid dynamic
- Keep files short; one widget/class per file when feasible
- Document public classes and functions concisely
- **Color opacity**: Use `color.withValues(alpha: 0.5)` instead of deprecated `withOpacity()`
- **Null safety**: Use late initialization and proper null checks
- **Widget lifecycle**: Properly dispose controllers and notifiers
- **State management**: Use ValueNotifier for reactive updates in CBS cells

### Python
- Format with Black (line length 100); lint with Ruff
- Python >= 3.11, prefer type hints on public functions
- Use `pytest` for tests; keep tests close to code
- Avoid complex metaprogramming; choose readability
- Small, focused modules; clear names; early returns

## Development Workflow

### Context Management
```bash
cbs context <app_name>          # Set application context
cbs focus <cell_name>           # Focus on specific cell  
cbs work <app> <cell>           # Start work session
```

### Cell Development
1. **Set Context**: Establish app/cell context before work
2. **Review Spec**: Check `ai/spec.md` for message contracts
3. **Validate Isolation**: Ensure no direct cell dependencies
4. **Implement Changes**: Work within cell boundaries only
5. **Test Isolation**: Validate bus-only communication
6. **Update Contracts**: Modify specs when changing messages

### Validation
```bash
cbs validate                    # Full validation suite
cbs validate --specs           # Specs only
cbs isolation                  # Check cell isolation
```

## Tech Stack

### Core Infrastructure
- **Message Bus**: NATS with JetStream persistence
- **Database**: Supabase PostgreSQL with MCP integration
- **Subject Pattern**: `cbs.{service}.{verb}` with queue groups

### Languages & Runtimes
- **Primary**: Rust 2021 Edition
- **UI**: Dart/Flutter SDK >=3.0.0 <4.0.0
- **Polyglot**: Python >=3.11 (via cells)

### Key Dependencies
#### Rust
- serde/serde_json, async-trait, async-nats, tokio, uuid, thiserror

#### Dart/Flutter
- CBS SDK (custom cell framework), HTTP & WebSocket clients

### Development Tools
- **Formatting**: rustfmt, dart format, Black
- **Linting**: clippy, flutter_lints, Ruff
- **Testing**: Built-in test frameworks + mockito
- **Observability**: log.d/i/w/e with correlation IDs

## Best Practices

### Keep It Simple
- Implement in fewest lines possible
- Avoid over-engineering solutions
- Choose straightforward approaches over clever ones

### Optimize for Readability
- Prioritize code clarity over micro-optimizations
- Write self-documenting code with clear variable names
- Add comments for "why" not "what"

### DRY (Don't Repeat Yourself)
- Extract repeated business logic to private methods
- Extract repeated UI markup to reusable components
- Create utility functions for common operations

### File Structure
- Keep files focused on single responsibility
- Group related functionality together
- Use consistent naming conventions

## Breaking Changes Protocol

When making breaking changes:
1. **Version Bump**: Increment major version (1.0.0 → 2.0.0)
2. **Message Versioning**: Add version to message names (`service.verb.v2`)
3. **Migration Plan**: Document how dependent cells adapt
4. **Backward Compatibility**: Consider supporting old subjects temporarily
